Welcome to this module on application environment security.
In the first clip,
we will see how to deploy an application in Elastic Beanstalk and
monitor the health of application and create alarms if the CPU
utilization exceeds a preset ratio.
Before we jump into a demo,
let's understand the features offered by Elastic Beanstalk.
With Elastic Beanstalk, you can deploy and manage application in AWS without
worrying too much about the underlying infrastructure.
You upload your application to the Beanstalk,
and it'll automatically handle all the complexities of load balancing,
provisioning, application help monitoring, and alerting. As of mid 2020,
applications developed in Go, PHP, Python, Node.js, Java, .NET, and Ruby
are supported by Elastic Beanstalk.
Let's jump into a demo and see how to deploy a demo
application in Elastic Beanstalk.
I just logged into AWS console, click on Elastic
Beanstalk, choose Create Application.
Let's go ahead and create a web app and deploy in
Beanstalk. Give your application a name.
I'm going to choose Java as a platform of my application,
and it is going to be a Java 8 application running on 64‑bit Linux.
If you have an application ready to be deployed, you can upload your own code
or choose a demo application that is provided by Beanstalk.
Click Create Application.
This is going to take some time as your application needs to be uploaded.
The required EC2 instances needs to be provisioned, the required
network configurations needs to be set up,
and finally, the application would be deployed.
Once the deployment is complete,
you will see the dashboard highlighting the current health of the
application. As I scroll down, you can see the different events that
occurred during the deployment process.
To your left, chose Configuration and it lists all the EC2
instances, IAM role, load balancer, and the software that we'll
provision as part of the deployment process.
Now that the application is deployed,
let's quickly launch the deployed application.
To your left, click on Go to your environment and it shows the main
page of the application that we just deployed.
Let's generate some sample traffic to this application.
Click on Open AWS X‑Ray Console to monitor this traffic. Under the Service map
section, it lists the end to end topology and shows the average processing
time by the application. Let's go back to Beanstalk console and set up alarms
if CPU utilization exceeds a certain threshold. Click on the name of your
application and you'll be taken to your application dashboard. To your left,
click on Monitoring,
and it shows the different metrics for your application
provided by Beanstalk. Under Overview, there is also a historic
view represented in a graphical form.
Click Edit.
This lets you add a new metric to the Overview section at the top.
Under Resources,
I'm going to choose a demo application. Under Statistic, I'm
going to select the Average, click Add,
and you can see the average environment health is added to the Overview
section at the top. Click Save to save your changes.
Now,
let's go ahead and create an alarm to monitor CPU utilization. Click on the
bell icon that you see at the top right corner of a chart.
Give the alarm a name, select a period, this is the time interval between
each readings. Under Threshold, specify the condition and the threshold
limit. Change state after indicates the amount of time after a threshold has
been exceeded to change the state of the alarm. You have the option of
selecting an SNS topic to receive notification or you can enter the email
address directly. Finally,
select the state change when you would like this alarm to be
triggered. I would like to trigger this alarm when state changes to
alarm state. Click Add. It looks like there is an error and it is
not happy with the alarm name.
It looks like it doesn't like the underscore that this part of the name. Let
me go ahead and remove the underscore, click Add, and the new alarm is
successfully created. Choose health to your left.
By selecting the instance,
you have the option either to reboot or terminate the instance. To your
left, click Alarm and it shows the alarm that we newly created. Choose
Events and you can see all the events that occurred in Beanstalk during the alarm creation process.